Add blogpost in sync with the v1.34 Kubernetes release (#462)
k3s-io/docs: blog/2025-08-30-K3s-1.34-release.md

---
title: Kubernetes v1.34 is out!
description: Step back and look at K3s recent work and achievements
authors: manuelbuil # Fill out your info in the authors.yml file
hide_table_of_contents: true
---
Kubernetes 1.34 is finally here! A look back at K3s recent work and achievements 🥳

It's been a busy and productive few months, and we're excited to share some of the amazing progress we've made. From new features that make your lives easier to important bug fixes and foundational improvements, our team and community have been hard at work.

## Key Features and Improvements ✨
Here’s a look at some of the most impactful features and updates we've rolled out:

#### Automatic Certificate Renewal Window Increase 📅

> We've made certificate management more user-friendly. We increased the automatic certificate renewal window from 90 to 120 days. This means if you perform quarterly upgrades, your certificates will be renewed more frequently, preventing them from expiring and making your clusters unusable. For more information check our [docs](https://docs.k3s.io/cli/certificate#client-and-server-certificates)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We've made certificate management more user-friendly by increasing the automatic certificate renewal window from 90 to 120 days. This means if you perform quarterly upgrades, your certificates will be renewed more frequently, preventing them from expiring and making your clusters unusable. For more information check our [docs](https://docs.k3s.io/cli/certificate#client-and-server-certificates)
```

Author: good

#### Optional Airgap Image Tarball Imports 💨

> For those who use K3s in an airgap environment, you now have the option to skip importing all image tarballs. You could select to import only images that have changed since they were last imported, even across restarts. This can significantly speed up the startup process, as the kubelet can start sooner. Check our [docs](https://docs.k3s.io/installation/airgap?airgap-load-images=Manually+Deploy+Images#enable-conditional-image-imports) for more information

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For those who use K3s in an airgap environment, you now have the option to skip importing all image tarballs. You can select to import only images that have changed since they were last imported, even across restarts.  This can significantly speed up the startup process when deploying a large number of images, as the kubelet can start sooner. Check our [docs](https://docs.k3s.io/installation/airgap?airgap-load-images=Manually+Deploy+Images#enable-conditional-image-imports) for more information
```

#### Enhanced Certificate Check Output ✅
We've improved the output of our certificate checks to provide clearer information about certificate usage and expiration dates. The output can also now be viewed in different formats. Our [docs](https://docs.k3s.io/cli/certificate#checking-expiration-dates) show an example of the new output format.

#### Kube-scheduler and Kube-controller-manager Certificate Management 🔐
We are now generating and managing certificates for kube-scheduler and kube-controller-manager, and they can be rotated using our existing certificate rotation [tool](https://docs.k3s.io/cli/certificate).

#### Retention Flag for S3 Stored Snapshots 💾

> We've added a new retention flag for snapshots stored in an S3 bucket. This allows you to keep snapshots in S3 for longer periods while maintaining a smaller number of local snapshots, helping to reduce the required storage for snapshots. This is a great feature for balancing long-term disaster recovery with local storage efficiency. Check out our [docs](https://docs.k3s.io/cli/etcd-snapshot#s3-retention) for more information about how to use it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We've added a new retention flag for snapshots stored in an S3 bucket. This allows you to keep snapshots in S3 for longer periods while maintaining a smaller number of local snapshots. This is a great feature for balancing long-term disaster recovery with local storage efficiency. Check out our [docs](https://docs.k3s.io/cli/etcd-snapshot#s3-retention) for more information about how to use it.
```

#### Official Governance Model 🤝
We're proud to announce that we now have an official governance model in place! This will help bring more clarity to our project and hopefully encourage more developers to join our fantastic community. You can read it [here](https://github.com/k3s-io/k3s/blob/master/GOVERNANCE.md).

## Bug Fixes and Other Notable Changes 🛠️
We've also been busy tackling a number of bugs, tech debt items and making other important improvements under the hood:

> Numerous bug fixes, including those for secrets encryption rotation timeouts, DNS fallbacks, secrets encryption race conditions, various authorization and authentication handling issues or replacing go-bindata with the go native embed package.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Numerous bug fixes, including those for secrets encryption timeouts and race conditions, DNS fallbacks, various authentication handling issues and replacing go-bindata with the go native embed package.
```

Improvements to our test and build infrastructure, e.g. migrating of K3s release artifacts to GitHub Actions (GHA).

## Version bumps for key components 🚀

Apart from Kubernetes v1.34.0, we bumped versions for several key components. Here is the list with the latest versions:

| Component | New Version |
| :--- | :--- |
| Kine | v0.13.17 |
| SQLite | v3.49.1 |
| etcd | v3.5.21 |
| containerd | v2.0.5 |
| runc | v1.2.6 |
| flannel | v0.27.0 |
| metrics-server | v0.7.2 |
| traefik | v3.3.6 |

> | coredns | v1.12.1 |

Reviewer 2: These are already stale, 1.34 will ship with newer versions for most of these.
